everyone knows the Harlem Globetrotters
but fewer are familiar with another
barnstorming basketball team members
became famous for their unique skills
and antics not to mention their gender
and the color of their hair and
tonight's all about Arkansas Steve
Powell chronicles the story of some real
pioneers some of the best athletes to
ever play the game of basketball
Arkansas zone all-american redheads even
in black and white the all-american
redheads were a colorful Bunch and
famous to national TV and Sullivan
famous a girls basketball team
professionals yet to be beaten this year
he's the all-american RIT
beginning in 1936 and four decades after
this team was just about the only place
a woman could play professional
basketball so athletes long on talent
but short on opportunity became redheads
one way or the other
they almost always played against men
and almost always beat them and very
change he's in his 80s now but Orville
read more still recalls his earliest
memories of the team he would come to
coach and later own the girls come out
all over fancy uniforms and everything
you know all of their thing right edge
back then he was a high school coach
married to one of the best ball players
around Lorene butch more the redheads
recruited them both when I told her
about it she went crazy though she loved
basketball she would become the redheads
all-time leading scorer he would coach
over 2000 games Orville bought the team
in 1955 basing it in his hometown of
caraway Arkansas Judy Cameron doesn't
have red hair anymore but is still very
much a redhead has been since the day
coach Moore asked her to join the team I
got a contract from mr. Moore in the
male side on the same saying I want you
to play for the redheads the first thing
they did the next day was cut my hair
off and doctrine from the beginning the
redheads were a big draw
they were shattering stereotypes ladies
at all times even when they were
thoroughly thumping the men they Criss
crossed the country by limo thrilling
packed gyms comparisons to the
Globetrotters were inevitable weave
through their crowds and roll
understand lots of times and they may
have been just as entertaining
there were tricks and routines but
longtime coach Ben Overman says the
funny business wasn't their main
business
she only field was secondary to us we
wanted to play great basketball or as
old coach Moore would say if you can't
play Bowl you better stay home
Orvil simple philosophy was a winner off
the court - we had three teams going at
one time if he did all the bookings and
promotions and all and the exposure got
bigger I had so and so the Johnny Carson
show the art Linkletter show the Red
Skelton Show
we played Christmas we played all
holidays you know we played every day
somewhere over the years the players
came and went
some found jobs most found husbands I
called the All American red edge
all-americans matrimonio view eventually
the opportunities got better for women
athletes the redheads played their final
game in the mid 80s but they've kept the
legacy alive with their lifelong
friendships and memories to do all those
tricks and do it against me in I mean
what could resist that we had quite a
chill buddy we had quite a show
fittingly the All American redheads are
now honored in the women's Hall of Fame
in Knoxville Tennessee remember for how
they lived and died to play the game of
basketball Steve Powell all about
Arkansas
another fine piece of work from Steve
well the all-american red X continue to
stay in touch with one another through
reunions but Lorene butch more sadly who
scored more than 35,000 points during
her career recently passed away her
husband coach read more hope said one
day Hollywood will make a movie on the
team and it sounds like a good plan to
me